docs: add contributing guidelines for authz (#11986)
SigNoz/signoz: docs/contributing/go/authz.md

# Authz

> SigNoz uses [OpenFGA](https://openfga.dev/), a relationship-based access control (ReBAC) system, to authorize every request. Permissions are never attached to users directly — they are attached to **roles** (as relationship tuples in OpenFGA), and users or service accounts are made **assignees** of those roles. The central interface is `AuthZ` in [pkg/authz/authz.go](/pkg/authz/authz.go), backed by an embedded OpenFGA server in [pkg/authz/openfgaserver](/pkg/authz/openfgaserver/server.go).

Author: ```suggestion
SigNoz uses [OpenFGA](https://openfga.dev/), a relationship-based access control (ReBAC) system, to authorize every request. Transactions are never attached to users directly — they are attached to **roles** (as relationship tuples in OpenFGA), and users or service accounts (principals) are made **assignees** of those roles. The central interface is `AuthZ` in [pkg/authz/authz.go](/pkg/authz/authz.go), backed by an embedded OpenFGA server in [pkg/authz/openfgaserver](/pkg/authz/openfgaserver/server.go).
```

Author: Applied the suggested wording in 4df24b2218.

    },
    handler.WithResourceDefs(handler.BasicResourceDef{
        Resource: coretypes.ResourceServiceAccount,
        Verb:     coretypes.VerbCreate,
        Category: coretypes.ActionCategoryAccessControl,
        ID:       coretypes.ResponseJSONPath("data.id"),
        Selector: coretypes.WildcardSelector,
    }),
)).Methods(http.MethodPost)
```

The pieces:

- **`CheckResources(handlerFn, roles...)`** — the resource-aware authorization wrapper from [pkg/http/middleware/authz.go](/pkg/http/middleware/authz.go). The role list is the community-edition fallback: which managed roles may call this route when per-resource checks are unavailable.
- **`ResourceDef`** — declares the resource, verb, audit category, how to extract the instance ID, and how to turn that ID into selectors. ID extractors live in [pkg/types/coretypes/extractor.go](/pkg/types/coretypes/extractor.go): `PathParam("id")`, `BodyJSONPath("data.id")`, `BodyJSONArray("ids")`, and `ResponseJSONPath("data.id")` for IDs only known after the handler runs (e.g. `create`).
- **`SecuritySchemes`** — advertises the required scope (`resource.Scope(verb)`, e.g. `serviceaccount:create`) in the OpenAPI spec.

> For routes that link two resources, use `AttachDetachSiblingResourceDef` (both sides are authz-checked, e.g. attaching a role to a service account requires `attach` on **both** the service account and the role) or `AttachDetachParentChildResourceDef` (only the parent is checked; the child is recorded for audit, e.g. creating an API key under a service account).

Author: this is incorrect, child is checked as well but for `create` / `delete` instead of attach and detach for parent

Author: Fixed in 4df24b2218 — reworded step 4 and the checklist: parent-child routes check both sides, the child via a `BasicResourceDef` with `create`/`delete` and the parent via `AttachDetachParentChildResourceDef` with `attach`/`detach` (child audit-only within that def), citing the `/api/v1/service_accounts/{id}/keys` route as the example.
